We're outside biscayne courthouse
awaiting a bail hearing for julio rentoria,
a violent criminal who,this morning,beat
and robbed store clerk in hialeah.
we'll cover the story after the hearing.
In the matter of the state of florida V.
Julio rentoria,trevor
battle,and oscar monahan
one count each,attempted murder
how do the defendants plea?
Not guilty.
Ms. Nevins,do the people
wish to be heard on bail?
Your honor,this morning,defendants rentoria and
battle beat a store clerk within an inch of his life.
Defendant monahan drove
them away from the scene.
They don't deserve bail.
no bail.
The defendants are remanded to
custody,miami-dade department of detention.
Next on the docket,state V.Kyle harmon.
That's you,vato.
sergeant tripp,the file
indicates you're the case I.O.
Mr. Harmon was arrested for kidnapping?
Your honor,the young man was not carrying
a weapon during the commission of the crime.
He has no violent history.
Therefore,he's not a threat.
young man,are you kyle harmon?
Yes,sir.
You've been charged with unlawful
detention,kidnapping,a serious offense.
Do you understand the charge?
Yes,sir,I do.
Which is why,even though you're
only 16,you'll be tried as an adult.
How do you plea?
in I plead not guilty,sir.
Your next appearance
will be in department B.
Until then,this court
remands you to custody.
We've been told rentoria's
hearing has just adjourned.
To put it lightly,there is a large crowd out
here anticipating his exit from the courthouse.
Have you,uh,told kyle he's your son?
I haven't yet.
Take a look at this crowd.
Must be at least a hundred knuckleheads
trying to get on television.
I got two million
bucks,whoever can bust me out.
Hey,baby,who's it gonna be?
You could be the lucky winner.
Hey,I got two mil,two million.
Julio rentoria.
Thinks he's the modern day jesse james.
I got two mil,whoever can break me out.
Hey,y'all,come on,two
mil,people. Who wants two mil?
I love you,julio.
Amy. That's my name.
- Amy.
- Amy? Amelita,look me up.
frank,you feel like taking a ride?
On the bus?
Yes. It looks like the
driver could use some help.
I'm on it.
Okay,frank.
counselor.
Horatio caine.
So you're back in court
on this kyle harmon thing.
Yeah,what about him?
You are moving to try him as an adult.
It was an adult crime,horatio.
He kidnapped a woman.
He is a child who was
blackmailed into the situation.
Regardless,he made a bad choice.
Children often do,don't they?
Very clever,lieutenant,but he's
still going to be tried as an adult.
Why do you care?
I care...
because it's my job.
Good to see you.
hey,let's go,let's go.
Come on,move it,go.
Let's get out of here.
Guys,over here.
Guys!
India 2,100. 315.
Two blocks east of biscayne courthouse.
Shots fired.
drop the gun!
Confirming you have additional information
regarding escapees from the bus.
Affirmative.
Broadcast to follow.
Frank.
I'm fine.
The prisoners.
I got four escapees;
we're blanketing the city.
Julio got his freedom,didn't
even have to pay for it.
Where is kyle,frank?
He's with 'em,horatio,he's gone.
What do you want to do?
I want to find him.
How you doing?
Fog of war.
I didn't see that young lady till...
you know.
You talk to I.A.B.?
No,but they're circling.
I got two messages on my cell.
Yeah,well,they can't do a shooting
review until we've processed the scene.
I got a bad feeling about this,calleigh.
I better get in there.
You call me if you need me.
I appreciate it.
That mob did such a
number on this scene,
I can't even find
tripp's expended casings.
All this is either useless
or it's compromised.
All right,well,let's start with
what we know- the vehicles.
We know that the pickup
truck hit the bus.
And dispatch called and said that
eyewitnesses saw a red suv flee the scene.
so maybe we can find some
sort of evidence of that.
You know what? As a matter of fact,
I got some red substance on the bumper.
Looks like paint.
Okay,maybe our... red suv
clipped this on its way out.
I'm gonna call horatio.
He's gonna want to know the
color of the getaway vehicle.
Okay.
Hey,natalia.
You know you can't be here. Right?
Oh,come on,don't shoot.
I come in peace here,all right?
So listen.
Guy named rich caprioto.
Oh,that's the guy from the firing range?
That's right,he's a real gunslinger,
and he's willing to meet
with you,uh,this afternoon.
Oh,well,I'M... I'm really busy.
natalia,I really went
out on a limb here.
I mean,this guy's
willing to do it for free.
- okay,well,if-if I
can,I-I will,okay? - Okay.
- Thanks.
- You're welcome.
Really,th-
okay.
Good luck.
Lieutenant caine.
You made the right decision,kyle.
Look,I only ran to get
away from those guys,okay?
Julio and the other two.
Did you see where they went?
Well,I saw them leaving in a blue suv.
Okay,'cause the witnesses said red suv.
I'm just telling you what I saw,okay?
Yeah,I believe you.
look,I know this might sound weird,
but if I go to jail,I
want you to walk me in.
- We need to make a stop first.
- What do you mean?
Get in. Trust me.
Inside,you keep your eyes to
yourself and don't look for trouble.
If it finds you- and it will-
you don't back down,no matter what.
- Do you understand?
- Yeah.
What did I just say?
Don't back down no matter what.
Okay,there's one more thing. Come here.
You ready?
Yeah.
Let's go.
How you doing?
This is as innocent as a victim gets.
How so?
Check this out.
I don't understand.
Her head is magnetized?
Steel plate?
It's a cochlear implant.
Helps deaf people to receive
and process speech and sounds.
It's surgically implanted
into the inner ear.
It consists of a receiver that decodes,
then transmits to an electrode
array,sending a signal to the brain.
Wouldn't there be an external component?
Oh,she must have lost
it before she was shot.
well,that explains why she
didn't get out of there.
She had no idea what was going on.
Doubt that will help
ease tripp's conscience.
No.
Have you got any firearms evidence?
Yeah.
Recovered it from between the
third and fourth vertebrae.
You know what? This might ease his mind.
It's a. 45.
Tripp only shoots a nine mil.
So,tripp didn't shoot anyone?
No.
Hey,you want to call him,since you
were the one who found the round?
Yeah.
Hey,where are you going
with my projectile?
To find out whose gun
this really came from.
what's all this for?
Standard operating procedure.
For what?
Murder of veronica eckland.
Deaf girl,was an innocent bystander
at a jail bus breakout earlier today.
A round from your. 45 has
ended up inside our victim.
Wait. I was nowhere near that thing.
Really?
You have some fresh cuts on your hands.
Are you sure you didn't
get caught up in the riot?
'Cause we have a couple
of great witnesses.
We could put you in a lineup.
Okay.
I heard about it on the news.
This julio guy who was leading the parade was
yelling something about paying two million,
whoever could bust him out.
And you just happened to be in the area?
For two million? You bet I was.
When I rolled up,the
place was going off.
They had the bus surrounded.
I sneaked my bike up for a closer look.
That's when I lost my gun.
You see who picked your gun up?
No.
People were going crazy.
I got out of there.
Did you see julithand o e two
other fugitives leave in an suv?
No,but I saw one of
them leave on my bike.
They stole your motorcycle?
Did you report it?
If I did that,I'bed
the joke of south beach.
We're talking about
two dangerous felons.
Do you see me laughing?
Attention,miami-dade units for
a stolen motorcycle broadcast.
The vehicle is a 2007 harley-davidson.
Black in color.
Florida plate
4-5-5-1-4-0.
Last seen in the area
of biscayne boulevard.
oscar monahan,hold it right there.
Oh,my god,thank god,man.
You know how long I've
been waiting on y'all?
You ain't never around when
a brother needs you,man.
Right,and you just happened
to walk away from a motorcycle
that was stolen from the
site of a bus breakout.
What you talk...? The bike...
man,I don't know
nothing about that bike.
Look,why don't you just tell us where your
partners,julio and trevor,are hiding out,
and we might be able to help you?
Look,I ain't got no partners.
And like I said,I don't
know nothing about no bike.
look at that.
Didn't we luck out that you
didn't throw those far enough?
you better get a comb,oscar.
You're getting ready to get
a whole new set of mug shots.
Come on.
hey,frank,look,I got to get
some time in at the range,
'cause I've got to prep
for my firearms qualies.
All right.
I'll put oscar in a radio
car and wait for the tow.
Go do what you have to do.
- All right,thanks.
- Yeah.
hey,natalia.
Hi.
Rich caprioto.
Nice to meet you.
Ryan says that you are the
best,so I'm hoping you can help me.
Well,I haven't failed a client yet.
okay.
Send one across the bow.
Okay.
Any... any pointers before I do this?
Yeah,be on time,especially when
someone's doing you a favor.
yeah,I'm sorry about that.
I'm right in the middle of a case.
Actually have to get some evidence
to the lab right after this.
You left it in your ride?
Yeah. It's a county
vehicle,so it's secure.
well,let's waste what's left in
the magazine,and we'll reschedule.
Copy that.
One quick hint.
Squeeze the trigger,don't jerk it.
Stealing the
motorcycle,oscar,is grand theft.
Look,man,I know the charge,all right?
I've had it before.
Yes,but this is a third
strike for you,isn't it?
So,what you getting at?
I want to know where
julio and trevor are.
Look,man,you got to
understand something.
That bid we was up for?
Look,I might have been with
them,but I was not with them.
That's why I went the other
way when the bus crashed.
My point is,that the theft charge
could be reduced to a misdemeanor.
I'm listening.
You say nothing.
Nothing.
Counsel for the defense.
Counselor,this is an
opportunity for your client.
Hear me out,and yomau y disagree.
I've got an expert witness who will
dispute the legitimacy of any evidence found
in or near the motorcycle
you're accused of stealing.
He's a former csi.
So,this conversation's over.
To be continued,oscar.
Let's talk in lockup.
- hey.
- Hi.
so,listen,I got a court order for
the,uh,evidence in the oscar monahan case.
Yeah.
Yeah,horatio told me that
you're working for the defense.
Yup.
What is that...? How do you think
that's going to get you back in the lab?
Well,being an expert
witness pays $300 an hour.
And I'm broke.
And I know you hate it,so
just let me do my job.
All right.
I found oscar's epis on the key chain,
so he stole the motorcycle
from the jail bus breakout.
You know,how...?
how are you going to
challenge my analysis?
I'm not going to
challenge your analysis.
I'm going to challenge your protocol.
What do you mean?
You didn't take the evidence
straight back to the lab,natalia.
No,because I was running to the range
appointment that you set up for me.
that you set me up for.
What?
You set me up.
Wait. No. Wait a second.
You think I'd actually do that?
Are you kidding?
just get me the evidence
so I can vet it,please.
Thank you.
You may put a fugitive
back out on the street.
You proud of yourself?
Right shoulder to the wall.
Man walking.
Listen up.
When the last three digits of your
booking number are called,step forward.
Jones,787.
787?
787,step up.
Don't worry about your clothes.
The trustees will tag them.
No talking in the print line.
Did you stop by the civilian range
before returning with the evidence?
Yes,but show me where
that's not allowed.
With ryan on the stand,tinhe
minds of the jury...?
Yeah,but this is oscar
monahan's third strike.
He stole a motorcycle to evade capture.
That's incontrovertible.
You screwed up,natalia.
No,I didn'T. I...
I had a friend turn on me.
So return the favor.
We discredit ryan,I may still
have a case against oscar.
I can't do it.
Just give me one negative on wolfe.
I'm sorry.
You should be.
It's your career.
I hear we may not be able to
put oscar on that motorcycle.
Compromised evidence.
So all we have left are trevor and
julio,and they escaped in the red suv.
That's correct.
Except for kyle said that it was blue.
Correct,too.
So one of them is lying?
No.
You're lying?
No,it's a special paint.
It changes colors.
Like a chameleon?
To the naked eye,yes.
Most paint jobs,they have a clear
coating that goes over color layer.
Oh,I see,to give it depth,right?
This paint's second coat is filled with reflective
synthetic flakes that are about one micrometer thick.
It creates a prism effect on the car.
So it refracts a different
color at a different angle.
the product's so new,there's only one place
in south beach that does this kind of work.
Lummus detailing.
I think we ought to take a ride and ask them what
cars they painted blue and red in the last week.
Let's go.
Check it out.
Ah,Mr. Bedford.
You have a pretty unique paint job and lummus
detailing tells us you're a very satisfied customer.
Yeah,well,hard to stay ahead
of the trends in this town.
Gotta do something to stand out.
Like break people out of
jail for an easy payday?
What,that,uh,$2 million
thing I heard about on tv?
I had nothing to do with that.
Paint transfer on the front
of your car says otherwise.
Yeah,so do these.
Looks like you cut the cuffs
off of julio and trevor.
Look,you have to
understand,this is not like me.
You've gote nic ahouse,a nice car.
Doesn't seem like you need the money.
Yes,I do.
My brother is sick.
He needs dialysis.
I heard about that two
million,and i had to go for it.
That's a life-saving amount of money.
Guys,over here.
Over here!
That's two,two million,right?
Man of my word,man,come on.
where's the two million now?
This looks like heroin.
What is this?
That's two million.
Maybe more if you sell it right.
You don't want it,you
don't have to take it.
Get out of here,man.
That's the last I ever saw of them.
Lowlifes.
What am I supposed to do
with a bag of pure heroin?
Go to jail.
Eight to 12.
Let's go.
well,if it's not benedict arnold.
Hi,frank. You look well.
What do you want?
Well,as expert witness in
the oscar monahan theft case,
I have a right to investigate
the alleged crime scene.
- "Alleged"?
- Yeah.
A guy stole a motorcycle
and dumped it here.
Stay outside the perimeter
until I can get you an escort.
oh,uh,frank.
Yeah?
That's a. 45.
Same caliber as the bullet they
pulled out of the deaf girl.
Yeah.
Looks like the joke's on you.
Oscar tossed the murder weapon.
Yeah,listen,I have to follow
this through the processing.
You do that. You're doing a
bang-up job for the defense,wolfe.
That's a nice haircut.
Have a good day.
All right.
Got something.
- Did you already test fire the weapon?
- I did.
Striations confirm the gun oscar tossed
was the one that killed veronica eckland.
I also found soft tissue.
So this is the skin from the. 45?
Yeah,the hammer pinch trapped the skin.
This will tell us who the shooter is.
And then,maybe I can
testify for the defense.
That would be fun.
Listen,natalia,at least consider the fact that
I brought the gun to tripp's attention,will ya?
You want points for
doing the right thing?
Hey.
Hey!
I follow the evidence no
matter who pays me. Okay?
I'm doing my job,I haven't sold my soul.
If oscar's guilty,then
he's guilty. All right?
he isn'T.
What?
He isn't?
It's not his dna.
He ended up with the
gun,but he never used it.
Whose dna is it?
Barry,you claim that you cut
your hands on the pavement...
when in reality,you cut your
hand shooting veronica eckland.
Didn't you?
I know this,barry,
because we recovered your skin from
the hammer of the. 45kihat tller her.
All I could think about
was all that money.
$2 million.
I was trying to get closer to julio.
I saw him on the news.
I cleared a path and she motioned
for him to get into her car.
sorry,dawg,what I need,I take.
Couldn't let her get the two
million and not me,so I shot her.
You said she motioned to julio.
Tatted up guy,goatee.
Yeah.
Thank you,barry. Take him,please.
- Yeah?
- Frank,our victim.
- The deaf girl?
- Yes.
Look into julio's background
and see if there's a connection.
You think she was in
on the bus breakout?
I do now.
Just about to fume these
drug packets for prints,
but I heard you wanted
to see them first.
Chameleon car guy said that
julio gave him the packets,right?
Yeah,as payment for helping
him flee the bus breakout.
If julio was small-time,where'd
he get this amount?
He had to get the heroin
from a third party.
I swabbed the packets for
epithelials,there aren't any.
Not where you're looking.
You see this edge?
It's amorphic,which means it was
sealed by hand,not by machine.
Julio's drug connection is old school.
It's an amateur
process,heat it,squeeze it.
But as air sucks into
the packet,so does skin.
joe lebrock.
Been in dade detention
for the last six months.
He may be locked up,but he still
owns property on the waterfront.
Take a look as his two known associates.
Julio re oriantand trevor battle.
Our two bandits on the run.
That's right.
I'll let horatio know.
Thanks.
This is lebrock's warehouse.
The suspects may be in the vicinity.
Do we have any movement inside yet?
None yet,sir.
What's the plan,lieutenant?
The plan is,is to keep
our eyes up,gentlemen.
Somebody's coming out.
He's got a weapon.
It's one of our escapees.
It's trevor battle.
Hey,trevor,where's julio?
Hey,don't worry about where julio's at.
Why is that?
Man,we got something you really want.
What are you talking about,trevor?
The kid.
What kid?
Kyle. From the bus.
Man,we found out he's your son.
That kid is back in custody,trevor.
Yeah. And that's exactly
where we're gonna kill him.
- trevor
- Take care,lieutenant caine.
yes,uh,this is lieutenant horatio caine.
I am looking for inmate kyle harmon.
Kyle harmon?
I got eyeballs on him now.
Do not let him out of your sight.
Horatio,you were right.
Homicide found o ut the deaf
girl was engaged to julio.
No wonder she tried to break him out.
Frank,she read our lips.
Have you,uh,told kyle he's your son?
I haven't yet.
Outside the courtroom is where
they found out about kyle.
I need a third floor
prowler at main control.
Excuse me.
One second,lieutenant.
Excuse me!
Inmate kyle harmon.
He's a miss-out,lieutenant.
He can't be a miss-out.
I just spoke to you on the phone.
Where is he?
Fight broke out. I had to break it up.
The fight was staged.
Do you monitor the phones?
Absolutely. System logs each
call from the phone bank.
Get me the logs.
And lock this place down,you understand?
Lock it down.
So someone knew that kyle was inside.
It had to be julio rentoria
that tipped them off,eric.
We're looking for security
cameras and phone logs.
All right,outbound phone numbers.
You want me to write a
warrant and get the addresses?
We don't have time.
Hang on. Here you go.
Wow,they're all clearing
out for this guy.
That's what I call respect.
Or fear.
Guy looks pretty hard-core.
Look at the wristband.
Joe lebrock.
That's the same guy whose place
we hit today at the waterfront.
His dna was on the drugs.
Okay,so he's our connection
to rentoria,isn't he?
Julio must have an untraceable phone.
untill now
Track it,eric.
What are you going to do?
I'm going to go talk to joe.
Where's the boy?
You mean your little boy?
I ain't telling you jack.
It looks like somebody
marked you up pretty good,joe.
Did they?
Joe,I am attempting to give you
a chance,so work with me on this.
I don't want it.
Okay.
Then we have a big problem.
Yeah?
And what would that be?
I'm not leaving this
room without an answer.
All right,got it.
Okay. Thanks.
Calleigh said that julio's cell phone
gps is in within a hundred-yard radius.
I'll take the left flank.
All right,let's go.
Julio!
Let's see some hands.
Go ahead.
Take your best shot.
It doesn't work like that,but
I'll make you a promise.
Oh,yeah,5-0,what's that?
You're not going to get away twice.
Whoa,whoa,whoa,whoa,wait.
I got something to deal.
Kyle.
Too late.
Lieutenant caine's got his own methods.
Let's go.
H,yeah,I'm on my way.
What's this?
You know,we rounded up
all your friends,joe.
Where's the boy?
Ever been to brazil,joe?
What?
Not long ago,someone that we both cared for
greatly was killed by an animal like you.
We went down to brazil to hunt him.
He never left the country,joe.
So what's that gotta do with me?
If those scratches are from my son
and anything has happened to him,
I'm going to come back to this
room and you will leave it in a bag.
So,I'm going to ask you one more time.
Where is he?
He's in the pipe chase.
Maintenance hallway between the cells.
Block C.
kyle!
Kyle!
kyle.
I did what you said. I fought back.
I know you did,son.
I know you did.
Why are you doing this?
I'm doing this,kyle...
because I'm your father,okay.
You... what?
I know you don't believe me,and
we can't talk about it now.
But we will. Come on.
We've got to get you back and keep
you away from the general population.
Could I have a minute,please,gentlemen?
Heard you got my third
strike kicked back.
As a matter of fact I did,oscar.
We all know there's no such thing as
a free lunch,so what do I gotta do?
There was a kid on the bus.
I don't want anything
to happen to him inside.
What are you talking about,protect him?
24/7- that's
your mission now.
Hey,feel me,man,I can't
be with him all the time.
Pass the word,oscar.
That kid is untouchable from here on in.
You understand?
All right,you got a deal.
Your boy is safe.
And,oscar,if anything happens to him...
I'm on my third strike.
There you go.
You're a smart man.
Take him.